README.md, before:


# NAME

lib::root - find perl root and push lib modules path to @INC

# VERSION

version 0.05

# SYNOPSIS

lib::root looks for a .libroot file on parent directories and pushes ./\*/lib to @INC.

When a file does `use lib::root`, lib::root will try to read the file parent directories and look for a rootfile (default is .libroot) that is usually located inside a /some/dir/perl that contains many modules used by your app. Many apps have a /some/dir/perl/.perl-version file inside a perl directory, when that is the case, the app can piggy back on that filename and look for that file instead of .libroot with the example below:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

To use the defaults, create an empty file named .libroot and place it in your /app/dir/perl/.libroot

    use lib::root;

    ... or use another custom file to determine a libroot

    use lib::root; # rootfile defaults to .libroot
    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

    ... or add a callback if needed

    use lib::root callback => sub { ... };

    ... or look for a given file in approot and use a perl root dir to push to inc

    use lib::root rootfile => '.app-root', perldir => 'perl';

# WHY IS THIS USEFUL

lib::root can be useful when your application perl modules are not installed globally.

When your app uses lib::root, the lib::root will look for the .libroot file into parent directories relative to the file using it.

For example, your app has the following structure:

    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Stuff/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/.perl-version
    /dir/myapp/bin/some_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/bin/another_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/.app-root

... and the app needs to push all those perl/\*/lib to @INC. There are some ways to do that

Add the directory to env PERLLIB or PERL5LIB

    PERLLIB=$PERLLIB:/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib:/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib

Or use -I

    perl -I/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib -I/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib

Or use a BEGIN block:

    BEGIN { push @INC, glob "/dir/myapp/perl/*/lib"; }

Or use lib::root:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl_is_here';

lib::root can also be instructed to look in a cousin dir relative to `bin` in the structure above

    use lib::root perldir => '../perl';

Or use lib

    use FindBin qw($Bin);
    use lib "$Bin/../lib";
    use lib "/home/user/MyApp/lib";

Or some other way ...

## USAGE

For a project with the following strucutre:

    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/MyApp/Thing.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib/MyApp/Another.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Stuff/lib/MyApp/Stuff.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/.libroot
    /dir/myapp/perl/.perl-version
    /dir/myapp/bin/some_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/bin/another_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/.app-root

### EXAMPLE 1 - DEFAULT USAGE

When using /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/MyApp/Thing.pm its possible to include perl/\*/lib to @INC by adding the following to Thing.pm

    use lib::root;

The above will detect the location of Thing.pm and go recursively to parent directories and look for the default `.libroot` file. Given that the .libroot file exists under /dir/myapp/perl/.libroot (/dir/myapp/perl/) , lib::root will do: push @INC, glob "/dir/myapp/perl/\*/lib";

### EXAMPLE 2 - CUSTOM lib::root FILE

Some plenv projects have a `.perl-version` file sitting under the perl dir ie. /perl/.perl-version (see structure above). If thats the case, lib::root can piggy back on the .perl-version file with:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

### EXAMPLE 3 - CALLING FROM SCRIPT OUTSIDE perl DIRECTORY

If the project has `bin` directories like the structure above, and the file /dir/myapp/bin/some\_script.pl needs to use lib::root, the file is outside the `perl` dir. It will use the `.app-root` file with a custom perl `perldir` to push libs to @INC, ie:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.app-root', perldir => 'perl';

The lib::root call insite the script in `bin` will look for a directory that contains `.app-root` and then it will use the child directory `perl` (the perldir option) to push the modules to @INC;

The same could be done to make the .pm files above also use the `.app-root` instead of the `.libroot`. Or, also, use `.libroot` with a custom `perldir`, ie:

    use lib::root perldir => 'perl';
    use lib::root perldir => 'dir1/dir2/dir3/perl';
    use lib::root perldir => '../perl';

### EXAMPLE 4 - CALLBACKS

If necessary, lib::root also accepts a callback as an option. The callback is executed after libs are pushed to @INC ie:

    use lib::root callback => sub { ... };

## SEE ALSO

Similar ideas have been implemented before in the modules below and possibly others

- RepRoot

    [https://metacpan.org/pod/RepRoot](https://metacpan.org/pod/RepRoot)

- lib::glob

    [https://metacpan.org/pod/lib::glob](https://metacpan.org/pod/lib::glob)

# LICENSE

Copyright (C) Hernan Lopes.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

# AUTHOR

Hernan Lopes

Commit message:

Checking in changes prior to tagging of version 0.06.
Changelog diff is:

diff --git a/Changes b/Changes
index 0673d92..b2cabcc 100644
--- a/Changes
+++ b/Changes
@@ -2,6 +2,11 @@ Revision history for Perl extension lib::root
 
 {{$NEXT}}
 
+0.06 2024-04-05T02:25:56Z
+
+    - update tests. smoke test reports failing for darwin
+    - update docs for sub root feature that returns root dir
+
 0.05 2024-04-04T23:49:25Z
 
     - create new sub that returns the root dir path

README.md, after:


# NAME

lib::root - find perl root and push lib modules path to @INC

# VERSION

version 0.06

# SYNOPSIS

lib::root looks for a .libroot file on parent directories and pushes ./\*/lib to @INC.

When a file does `use lib::root`, lib::root will try to read the file parent directories and look for a rootfile (default is .libroot) that is usually located inside a /some/dir/perl that contains many modules used by your app. Many apps have a /some/dir/perl/.perl-version file inside a perl directory, when that is the case, the app can piggy back on that filename and look for that file instead of .libroot with the example below:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

To use the defaults, create an empty file named .libroot and place it in your /app/dir/perl/.libroot

    use lib::root;

    ... or use another custom file to determine a libroot

    use lib::root; # rootfile defaults to .libroot
    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

    ... or add a callback if needed

    use lib::root callback => sub { ... };

    ... or look for a given file in approot and use a perl root dir to push to inc

    use lib::root rootfile => '.app-root', perldir => 'perl';

# WHY IS THIS USEFUL

lib::root can be useful when your application perl modules are not installed globally.

When your app uses lib::root, the lib::root will look for the .libroot file into parent directories relative to the file using it.

For example, your app has the following structure:

    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Stuff/lib/...
    /dir/myapp/perl/.perl-version
    /dir/myapp/bin/some_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/bin/another_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/.app-root

... and the app needs to push all those perl/\*/lib to @INC. There are some ways to do that

Add the directory to env PERLLIB or PERL5LIB

    PERLLIB=$PERLLIB:/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib:/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib

Or use -I

    perl -I/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib -I/dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib

Or use a BEGIN block:

    BEGIN { push @INC, glob "/dir/myapp/perl/*/lib"; }

Or use lib::root:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl_is_here';

lib::root can also be instructed to look in a cousin dir relative to `bin` in the structure above

    use lib::root perldir => '../perl';

Or use lib

    use FindBin qw($Bin);
    use lib "$Bin/../lib";
    use lib "/home/user/MyApp/lib";

Or some other way ...

## USAGE

For a project with the following strucutre:

    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/MyApp/Thing.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Another/lib/MyApp/Another.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Stuff/lib/MyApp/Stuff.pm
    /dir/myapp/perl/.libroot
    /dir/myapp/perl/.perl-version
    /dir/myapp/bin/some_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/bin/another_script.pl
    /dir/myapp/.app-root

### EXAMPLE 1 - DEFAULT USAGE

When using /dir/myapp/perl/MyApp-Thing/lib/MyApp/Thing.pm its possible to include perl/\*/lib to @INC by adding the following to Thing.pm

    use lib::root;

The above will detect the location of Thing.pm and go recursively to parent directories and look for the default `.libroot` file. Given that the .libroot file exists under /dir/myapp/perl/.libroot (/dir/myapp/perl/) , lib::root will do: push @INC, glob "/dir/myapp/perl/\*/lib";

### EXAMPLE 2 - CUSTOM lib::root FILE

Some plenv projects have a `.perl-version` file sitting under the perl dir ie. /perl/.perl-version (see structure above). If thats the case, lib::root can piggy back on the .perl-version file with:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.perl-version';

### EXAMPLE 3 - CALLING FROM SCRIPT OUTSIDE perl DIRECTORY

If the project has `bin` directories like the structure above, and the file /dir/myapp/bin/some\_script.pl needs to use lib::root, the file is outside the `perl` dir. It will use the `.app-root` file with a custom perl `perldir` to push libs to @INC, ie:

    use lib::root rootfile => '.app-root', perldir => 'perl';

The lib::root call insite the script in `bin` will look for a directory that contains `.app-root` and then it will use the child directory `perl` (the perldir option) to push the modules to @INC;

The same could be done to make the .pm files above also use the `.app-root` instead of the `.libroot`. Or, also, use `.libroot` with a custom `perldir`, ie:

    use lib::root perldir => 'perl';
    use lib::root perldir => 'dir1/dir2/dir3/perl';
    use lib::root perldir => '../perl';

### EXAMPLE 4 - CALLBACKS

If necessary, lib::root also accepts a callback as an option. The callback is executed after libs are pushed to @INC ie:

    use lib::root callback => sub { ... };

### EXAMPLE 5 - GET ROOT DIR

IT is also possible to get the root dir calling the root sub:

    my $rootdir = lib::root->root;

### EXAMPLE 5 - GET ROOT DIR

IT is also possible to get the root dir calling the root sub:

    my $rootdir = lib::root->root;

## SEE ALSO

Similar ideas have been implemented before in the modules below and possibly others

- RepRoot

    [https://metacpan.org/pod/RepRoot](https://metacpan.org/pod/RepRoot)

- lib::glob

    [https://metacpan.org/pod/lib::glob](https://metacpan.org/pod/lib::glob)

# LICENSE

Copyright (C) Hernan Lopes.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

# AUTHOR

Hernan Lopes
